Title: Automation of Civil Infrastructure
Full_Title: Emerging Technologies for America's Infrastructure
Year: 2014
Tags: research energy pubs scm
Order: 1
Thumbnail: /img/projects/civil.png
pubs: Kane201416, Peckens201417, Kane2017Digital

Criticality,  complexity, and expansiveness make the control and management of civil  infrastructure systems a particularly challenging problem. A plethora of  outdated techniques are used to control much of the legacy infrastructure that  is unreliable and wastes energy. Upgrading these systems with advanced  controllers which take advantage of ubiquitous computing and networking may  present a win-win scenario with decreased costs and increases sustainability.  My interests aim to confront this challenge with the application of networked  control theory, embedded computing, and wireless communications.

Systems control  theory, primarily developed in the fields of aerospace, electrical, and  mechanical engineering, is a vital, yet oft overlooked discipline of  infrastructure engineering. This intersection of civil engineering with control  theory covers a breadth of challenging applications and philosophies. Systems  such as heating ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems, feedback  structural control, fluid distribution networks, and the electric grid all fall  under the umbrella of civil engineered systems which may benefit from  advancements in control, communication, and sciences.

Common amongst many  of these systems are nonlinear dynamics, complex state and control constraints,  and distribution of sensing, actuation, and computation. My research has  brought together recent theoretical developments in bilinear dynamical systems  (BDS), model predictive control (MPC), and agent-based control (ABC). Bilinear  systems have a state that evolves as a linear function of the current state,  plus a multiplicative term with respect to the control input and state. Such  systems are linear under constant input, but nonlinear when control dynamics  are considered. Additional complexity in civil systems can be found in  force-limited actuators, maximum power constraints, and safe operating  limits. Model predictive control is a well-developed control theory  particularly well suited for such control systems with constraints and  model disturbances.

Interdisciplinary  research is fundamental to solving today's engineering problems. To this end,  my Ph.D. research aimed to increase the reliability and reduce energy  consumption of bilinear civil systems through the development of a distributed  model predictive control (DMPC) system constrained by limited wireless  communication bandwidth. I lead an interdisciplinary intercollegiate team  through the design of a wireless control platform capable of solving complex  online open-loop control optimization problems required for DMPC. The civil  application areas for these new devices all exhibit a large number of  measurements and points of actuation which may overwhelm a centralized control  device, but not the decentralized computation and collaboration inherent in a  network of these wireless decision makers. With the vision of improving  infrastructure system reliability and efficiency, my research made progress  towards unifying bilinear MPC with the design of wireless control hardware and  thorough validation on test beds. 